> connected group piece finding
> make sure all contours go in a clockwise/ccw direction
> check border contunuity when evaluating fit
> better contour detection (frechet distance)
> algorithm for optimizing a set of matches based on fit evaluation
> figure out how to photograph pieces face up with perfect binarization



description of problems:
    the main problem is that I have not found a method of comparison that can reliably find a piece's position based 
on the reference image. feature matching does not produce enough features for many piece images, and template matching is
apparently not robust enough to account for noise/rotation/color shift between images. It is clear that the puzzle I have chosen
cannot be solved through piece shape alone, so I need to figure out how to get reliable shape detection while they are face 
up as well so the image is usable for locating. A method I have seen for other puzzle solvers is to take some measure of
color around the edge of two pieces which match based on their edge shape, and compare them for "chromatic continuity"
The downside of this approach is that its possible, but unlikely, for a natural color shift to accur abruptly and
along the edge of two pieces, giving them little chromatic continuity but still being a correct match. This was a reason before
for my initial hesitance, but it seems relatively unlikely now due to the irregular shape of the interlocking portions of pieces.
And also, this method would not likely greatly depend on processing the reference image for direct comparision to piece images.
It would really only be necessary to compare pieces to eachother for chromatic continuity, which is quite desirable, as one
of the main difficulties of template matching was that it is difficult to get a reliable, binarizable image of the pieces,
while capturing their images without glare or shadows, correct for scale and/or rotation, and compare it directly to the ref image.
The downside of this is that I need perfect binarization while capturing the puzzle's face. The obvious method to do this is to
individually, or in small batches, capture the pieces on a backlit surface. One suggestion is that the camera is mounted
on the head with the grabber, and a wide angle view can be taken of the pieces on some non-lit surface, identify clusters,
then go to each piece, carry it to some lit surface for a quality image read, then take it back after. Do this for every piece,
process them and solve for finished puzzle and execute movements. The question is if a webcam that can be mounted on the head 
will have high enough resolution to get good enough images. investigation required. I think that for now, the way to continue
will be to figure out my solving algorithm based on contours alone, becuase this will generate extra, false solutions, then
once that is finished we need only integrate the chromatic continuity algorithm as a rejection step for pairing up pieces, so
should be easy to include at the end.