in intro exposition the replicants are refferred to as robots, and refers to their purpose as "slave labor".
killing replicants is called "retirement." None of the actual characters refer to the replicants as 
slaves, besides the rogue replicants. This is among the frist peices of evidence that the movie
beleives replicants are human enough to not deserve their low place in society

Tyrell hq towers above the surroinding structures. It resembles a pyramid, a notable example of a 
monument constructed by slaves (3:57) Signifies tyrell as a place which has reached rgeat heights and made 
bounding scientific advances, but the foundation is the toil and death of beings which they have taught
do not deserve treatment as human.

The void-comp test ironically appears to detect replicants by measuring 
signifigant emotional response to hypothetical situations. (6:50) It also measures these responses by
observing the eye. Among the frist example int he recurring theme of eyes. many of PKD's stories have a theme of
an absence of an objective reality. this carries over into blade runner. The eyes let us form 
our interpretation of the world. They let us see out, yet they also let others see in. (windows to the soul)
Several times throughout the film, some characters at certain times posess a golden glow in their pupil, 
which is a glimpse behind the human face, a reminder that what you see is not literally human, though they may 
still posess humanity.

advertisements are omnipresent from every view in los angeles (7:37) The corporations of this 
future are towering and monolothic. beams like spotlights scan the room in many indoor scenes. LA itself seems to
press in upon you in every scene, and the eyes of the towering structures are never closed.

"A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies. The chance to begin again in a golden land
of opportunity and adventure" (7:44)

Deckard seems to be indifferent as he looks at the ship advertising the offworld colonies (8:30)

The future depicted has flying cars, space travel, and "machines" that perform all dangerous or unsavory work.
all typical elements of fantasical future depictions, yet the world depicted is in reality bleak
and suffocating.

gaff's frist origami, a chicken follows the line from captain bryant:
"if youre not cop you're little people"(12:44)

the replicants have "incept dates" not birthdays. another example of dehumanizing language. The replicants
are not fulled with wires and gears. they are grown from human eggs as adults, yet people talk about 
like they are robots. (more examples needed)

"they were designed to copy humans in every ... " (15:45)

the owl's (which we know is artificial) eyes reflect in the same way as rachel's during her void-comp (17:00)
shows eye-glow signifigance as a mark of syntheticness

the void comp observes the eyes of the replicants (theme of eyes/perception). reinforces eyes as something
that goes both ways. Eyes are how roy sees the sights he recounts upon his death, they let him take things in,
but with the void-comp test oberving the eye, and the eye-glow that is shown repeatedly, eyes are reinforced as
a way the world sees in.

deckard referes to rachel as an "it" after finding she is a replicant (21:50)

"more human that human is our motto" (22:00)

Rachel is an experiment. She is supposedly the first replicant to be given memories and a "past"

Gaff's second origami is left at the hotel of one of the rogue replicants. 
it is a stick figure person

the first task of roy we are shown is to visit the genetic engineer of the replicant's eyes 
(theme of eyes/perception)

"fiery the angels fell. deep thunder rolled around their shores, burning with the fires of orc" (27:25)
quote from william blake's america: a prophecy

"if only you could see what i've seen with your eyes" (29:00)

Deckard appears uncomfortable after seeing rachel crying upon receiving proof she is a replicant, despite 
his job being the "retiring" of replicants.

JF appears to be uncomfortable around other people, almost childish. Roy and priss' methods for convincing him to
take them to tyrell are like people enticing a child.
(his genetic creations are his "toys" or "friends")
The proportions of some items in his house make the people seem very small.

Deckard stares into space, recollecting or imagining an image of a unicorn running through a forest(42:00)
Gaff leaves an origami unicorn on Deckard's doorstep, hinting that Gaff has access to deckard's (possibly)
implanted memories the same way deckard had access to rachel's

the high-class club where deckard meets taffy is almost comically opposed with the rest of the places 
depicted in LA (high-class and everybody else) (people pretending the world is different from how it is)

Deckard asks both about the snake and the owl if they are real; it seems to be a pertinent question to him

When rachel asks if deckard would attempt to retire her, her eyes shine like they did during the 
void comp, and like the owl's did (1:05:30)

"but somebody would" as deckard's eyes shine the same way, yet out of focus

Rachel attempts to leave after Deckard begins being affectionate towards her. She is hesitant to 
accept the depth of her humanity int he light of her recent discoveries about herself

Priss (a previous pleasure replicant) covers up her face with paint as a mask, 
a rejection of her purpose as a slave.

JF sebastian's illbess "methuselah syndrome" causes him to age too quickly. 
Methuselah of the bible was a man who lived for over 900 years. JF's disease makes him similair to the replicants
in his home: they are all set to leave this world too soon.

Priss' eyes shine replicant-ily as she asks about JF's disease.

Tyrell seems almost proud of his creation in roy, despite what he must know roy has done to meet him in person,
and encourages roy to "revel in his time"

Roy kills his father/creator/god by gouging out his eyes (eyes/perception of reality theme)

Roy revels in his last minutes during his pursuit of deckard. He teases Deckard, and does not 
kill him when he has the chance, despite the recent death of his compains including priss. his attitude only 
really changes in the very last moments.

Roy becomes a christ-ian figure as he pushes a nail through his hand to regain its feeling during the final chase.
This is cemented upon the act of saving deckard on the rooftop. Up until now Roy has strived to by any means 
extend his lifespan, and in doing so has done many terrible things. Yet in his last moments, he realizes that
for his life to have amounted to anything more than animal instinct, it must be spent in an act of humanity:
saving deckard's life. In Roy's ending monologue, he accepts the finite nature of his life ("time to die") and 
is left only with his regret not that he failed to prolong himself, but that the spectacular and awesome
sights he has seen along the way would be lost with him, "like tears in rain"

"its too bad she wont live. but then again who does?" (1:48:55)

the origami unicorn of the last scene is the second half of the proof that deckard is a replicant: gaff somehow
knew of deckard's connection to the image.

Roy's eyes never seem to have the yellow glow shown by almost every other synthetic human or animal





































































